Alve field description:
Recovery strategy: The field is produced by pressure depletion.
Transport: The oil is offloaded from the Norne FPSO and the gas is transported via the Norne pipeline to the Åsgard Transport System (ÅTS) and further to the Kårstø terminal for export.
Reservoir: "Alve produces oil and gas from sandstone of Early and Middle Jurassic age in the Tilje, Not and Garn Formations. The reservoir is at a depth of 3600 metres and has moderate to good quality."
Status: Production from Alve is constrained by the commercial agreement with the Norne licence and the gas handling capacity on the Norne FPSO. Excess capacity on the FPSO in recent years has made it possible to process larger volumes of gas from Alve. The long-term activity on the field is to optimise production. An exemption from a PDO was granted for the development of the discovery 6507/3-8 Andvare in 2023. Andvare will be drilled and produced from an available well slot on Norne.
Development: "Alve is a field in the Norwegian Sea, 16 kilometres southwest of the Norne field. The water depth is 370 metres. Alve was discovered in 1990, and the plan for development and operation (PDO) was approved in 2007. The development concept is a standard subsea template with four production wells. Alve is tied to the Norne production, storage and offloading vessel (FPSO) by a pipeline. The production started in 2009."

Johan Sverdrup field description:
Transport: Stabilised oil is exported from the riser platform through a new oil export pipeline that is connected to existing underground storage caverns at the Mongstad terminal. The gas is exported from the riser platform to the Kårstø terminal through a new pipeline connected to Statpipe.
Recovery strategy: "The field is produced by water injection as pressure support, as well as gas lift in the production wells."
Development: "Johan Sverdrup is a field on the Utsira High in the central part of the North Sea, 65 kilometres northeast of the Sleipner fields. The water depth is 115 metres. Johan Sverdrup was discovered in 2010 and the plan for development and operation (PDO) for Phase I was approved in 2015. The development solution for the first development phase is a field centre with four specialised platforms: living quarters, process, drilling and riser facilities. The four platforms are connected by bridges. The drilling platform has 48 well slots and is prepared for simultaneous drilling, well intervention and production. The field is operated with power from shore. In 2019, the production from Phase I started and the PDO for Phase II was approved. It includes a process platform and five subsea templates, in addition to modifications on the riser platform. The production from Phase II started in 2022/2023."
Reservoir: "The main reservoir contains oil in Upper Jurassic intra-Draupne sandstone. The reservoir depth is 1900 metres. The quality of the main reservoir is excellent with very high permeability. The remaining oil resources are in sandstone in the Upper Triassic Statfjord Group and Middle to Upper Jurassic Vestland Group, as well as in spiculites in the Upper Jurassic Viking Group. Oil was also proven in Permian Zechstein carbonates."
Status: "Johan Sverdrup accounts for about one third of the Norwegian oil production. The field is currently producing with high regularity at plateau, close to the current oil handling capacity. The oil handling capacity was increased after a capacity test in May 2023."

Troll field description:
Recovery strategy: "The gas in Troll Øst is recovered by pressure depletion through 39 wells drilled from Troll A. The oil in Troll Vest is produced from long horizontal wells, which penetrate the thin oil zone directly above the oil-water contact. The recovery strategy is based primarily on pressure depletion, but this is accompanied by a simultaneous expansion of both the gas cap above the oil zone and the underlying water zone. Some gas is also reinjected. Produced water was reinjected into the northern part of the Troll Vest oil province from 2000 to 2016."
Transport: "The gas from Troll Øst and Troll Vest is transported through three multiphase pipelines to the gas processing plant at Kollsnes. The condensate is separated from the gas and transported by pipeline to the Mongstad terminal. The dry gas is transported in Zeepipe II A and II B to Zeebrugge in Belgium. The oil from Troll B and Troll C is transported in the Troll Oil Pipelines I and II, respectively, to the oil terminal at Mongstad."
Status: "More than two million reservoir metres have been drilled on Troll. Drilling of new oil production wells on Troll concluded altogether in 2023; however, the need for future oil wells will be considered regularly. A new gas compressor module on the Troll C platform started in 2020 to increase gas production and processing capacity. The production from the first stage of the Troll Phase III development started in 2021. The development includes eight new gas production wells on Troll Vest and a flowline to the Troll A facility."
Reservoir: "Troll contains very large amounts of gas resources and is also one of the largest oil producing fields on the Norwegian continental shelf. The field has two main structures: Troll Øst and Troll Vest. About two-thirds of the recoverable gas reserves lie in Troll Øst. The gas and oil reservoirs in the Troll Øst and Troll Vest structures consist primarily of shallow marine sandstone of Late Jurassic age in the Sognefjord Formation. Part of the reservoir is also in the underlying Fensfjord Formation of Middle Jurassic age. The field consists of three relatively large, rotated fault blocks. The eastern fault block constitutes Troll Øst. The reservoir depth at Troll Øst is 1330 metres. Pressure communication between Troll Øst and Troll Vest has been proven. Originally, the oil column in Troll Øst was mapped to be 0-4 metres thick. A well drilled in 2007 proved an oil column of 6-9 metres in the Fensfjord Formation in the northern segment of Troll Øst. The Troll Vest oil province originally had a 22 to 26-metre-thick oil column under a small gas cap, located at a depth of 1360 metres. The Troll Vest gas province originally had an oil column of 12-14 metres under a gas column of up to 200 metres. The oil column is now reduced to a thickness of only 1 to 5 metres. A significant volume of residual oil is encountered directly below the Troll Vest oil column."
Development: "Troll is a field in the northern part of the North Sea. The water depth is 300-330 metres. Troll was discovered in 1979, and the initial plan for development and operation (PDO) was approved in 1986. The plan was updated in 1990 and involved the transfer of gas processing to the Kollsnes terminal. The production started in 1995. A phased development was pursued for the Troll field, with Phase I recovering gas reserves in Troll Øst and Phase II focusing on the oil reserves in Troll Vest. Troll Phase I has been developed with Troll A, which is a fixed wellhead and compression platform with a concrete substructure. Troll A receives power from shore. The gas compression capacity at Troll A was increased in 2004/2005, and again in 2015. Troll Phase II was developed with Troll B, a floating concrete accommodation and production platform, and Troll C, a semi-submersible accommodation and production steel platform. The oil is produced from several subsea templates tied-back to Troll B and Troll C by flowlines. The production from Troll C started in 1999. The Troll C platform is also utilised for production from the Fram field. Several PDO amendments were approved in connection with various subsea templates at Troll Vest. A PDO for Troll Phase III (gas production from Troll Vest) was approved in 2018 and the production started in August 2021. An amended PDO for power from shore to Troll Vest was approved in 2021."

Valhall field description:
Development,"Valhall is a field in the southern part of the Norwegian sector in the North Sea. The water depth is 70 metres. Valhall was discovered in 1975, and the initial plan for development and operation (PDO) was approved in 1977. The field was originally developed with three facilities for accommodation (QP), drilling (DP), and processing and compression (PCP). The production started in 1982. A PDO for a wellhead facility (WP) was approved in 1995 and for a water injection platform (IP) in 2000. Bridges connect the platforms. A PDO for two wellhead platforms on the northern and southern flanks was approved in 2001. A PDO for Valhall Redevelopment was approved in 2007. The plan included an accommodation and processing platform (PH) to replace aging facilities on the field. The PH-platform is supplied with power from shore. A PDO for Valhall Flank West which included a normally unmanned wellhead platform was approved in 2018, and the production started in 2019. An amended PDO for a new production and wellhead platform (PWP) was approved in June 2023."
Reservoir,Valhall produces oil from chalk in the Upper Cretaceous Hod and Tor Formations. The reservoir depth is 2400 metres. The Tor Formation chalk is fine-grained and has good reservoir quality. Considerable fracturing allows oil and water to flow more easily than in the underlying Hod Formation.
Recovery strategy,The field was initially produced with pressure depletion and compaction drive. Water injection in the centre of the field started in 2004. Chalk compaction as a result of pressure depletion and water weakening has led to seabed subsidence. Gas lift is used to optimise production in most of the production wells.
Transport,Oil and NGL (Natural Gas Liquids) are routed via pipeline to the Ekofisk field and further to Teesside in the UK. Gas is sent via Norpipe to Emden in Germany.
Status,"The Valhall field has produced more than one billion barrels of oil equivalents, which is three times more than the original PDO estimate. New completion technology to increase recovery from the tight chalk reservoir is implemented in a new producer drilled on the northern flank of Valhall. Drilling of new wells will continue in the foreseeable future. Decommissioning of the QP, PCP and DP facilities must be completed by the end of 2026. Start-up of production from the new platform (PWP) is expected for 2027."

Ekofisk field description:
Transport,"Oil and gas are routed to export pipelines via the processing facility at Ekofisk J. Gas from the Ekofisk area is transported via the Norpipe gas pipeline to Emden in Germany, while the oil is sent via the Norpipe oil pipeline to Teesside in the UK."
Development,"Ekofisk is a field in the southern part of the Norwegian sector in the North Sea. The water depth is 70 metres. Ekofisk was discovered in 1969, and the initial plan for development and operation (PDO) was approved in 1972. Test production was initiated in 1971 and ordinary production started in 1972. The production was initially routed to tankships until a concrete storage tank was installed in 1973. Since then, the field has been further developed with many facilities, including facilities for associated fields and export pipelines. Several of the initial facilities have already been removed or are awaiting decommissioning. The initial field development started with three production platforms: Ekofisk A, Ekofisk B and Ekofisk C. Wellhead platform Ekofisk X and process platform Ekofisk J were installed in 1996 and 1998, respectively, as part of the Ekofisk II project. In 2005, wellhead platform Ekofisk M was installed as part of the Ekofisk Growth Project. A plan for water injection at Ekofisk was approved in 1983. Ekofisk K, which is the main injection facility, started water injection in 1987 and is still in operation. There had also been water injection at Ekofisk W from 1989 until 2009, when Ekofisk W was shut down and replaced by a subsea template, Ekofisk VA. A PDO for the development of Ekofisk South was approved in 2011. The project included two new installations in the southern part of the field: production platform Ekofisk Z and a subsea template for water injection, Ekofisk VB. Injection from Ekofisk VB and production from Ekofisk Z started in 2013. The accommodation facilities Ekofisk H and Ekofisk Q were replaced by Ekofisk L in 2014. An amended PDO for an additional water injection template, Ekofisk VC, was approved in 2017."
Recovery strategy,"Ekofisk was originally produced by pressure depletion and had an expected recovery factor of 17 per cent. Since then, comprehensive water injection has contributed to a substantial increase in oil recovery. Large-scale water injection started in 1987, and in subsequent years, the area for water injection has been extended in several phases. Experience has proven that water displaces the oil much more effectively than anticipated, and the expected final recovery factor for Ekofisk is now estimated to be over 50 per cent. In addition to the water injection, compaction of the soft chalk provides extra force to drainage of the field. The reservoir compaction has resulted in about 10 metres subsidence of the seabed, especially in the central part of the field. It is expected that the subsidence will continue, but at a much lower rate."
Status,"The production from Ekofisk is maintained at a high level through continuous water injection, drilling of production and injection wells, and well interventions. Water injection is extended in the southern part of the field. Key challenges are identifying the remaining oil pockets in a mature, waterflooded reservoir, as well as handling the increasing volumes of produced water. Infill drilling on Ekofisk is expected to continue throughout the lifetime of the field. Various drilling methods are being studied to reduce drilling costs, for example coiled tubing drilling. In 2022, the production licence 018, which includes the Ekofisk field, was extended until 2048."
Reservoir,"Ekofisk produces oil from naturally fractured chalk of Late Cretaceous age in the Tor Formation and early Paleocene age in the Ekofisk Formation. The reservoir rock has high porosity, but low permeability. The reservoir has an oil column of more than 300 metres and is at a depth of 3000 metres."
